I think there's something about I'm
interested in, you know, physicality
a lot. So, body language and movement
that is more emotive for me than
actually, you know, trying to describe
something. So, I think that's one of the
things that I'm interested in in terms
of close-ups.
>> [music]
>> My name is Yorgos Lanthemos and these
are my best shots.
My favorite shot from Doc Tooth is um
there's a shot where there's a hand with
an airplane with a toy airplane uh that
goes into the frame and then you know
someone comes in and grabs it and then
there's like a kathuffle that goes on.
The airplane thing was a key thing for
me to unlock you know how the world
worked.
Like when we were discussing it with
Etheimis when we started writing the
film, you know, me trying to explain the
idea to him, I came up with this example
of, you know, these kids, you know,
don't know the outside world exists. And
then I was thinking, you know, they're
in this garden, so what can they see? So
they can see airplanes going by. How do
you explain that? And I go like, you
know, maybe they tell them it's just,
you know, toys and they throw them in
the garden and, you know, because of the
distance they don't understand the
difference. And uh, you know, I remember
feeling, you know, quite content with
coming up with a quite a minimalist idea
of how to cover [music] that part of the
scene.
>> [music]
>> I think we we came up with the idea of
the world first of how it would work.
What would the characters be?
>> Now, the fact that you'll turn into an
animal if you fail to fall in love with
someone during your stay here is not
something that should upset you or get
you down.
>> And then structuring the outline of the
film, that's how we
uh insert those kind of elements. So
most of the times I like and especially
when we're working with a thimish for
sure you know we like to reveal slowly
you know what the rules of the game are
or the rules of the world. So
you know that shot is an example of like
creating some kind of intrigue more
questions than answers and then slowly
then the answers come.
The driver was actually the production
designer in the film, the the woman that
comes out and kills a donkey. So yeah,
again, it was a complicated shot that
kind contains quite a bit in terms of
action, but also sets up the tone and
information.
>> We wish you every success and we hope
you will return to the city as a couple.
If you encounter any problems, any
tensions, any arguing that you cannot
resolve yourselves, you will be assigned
children. That usually helps a lot.
>> They get like a sacred deer shot. God
damn it. I mean, I I quite like the
closeup of Rafi on the motorbike when
she's behind uh Barry. We shot it
without, you know, any artificial
lighting and, you know, we were out in
the streets in Cincinnati and um, you
know, it's a slow motion shot and it's
kind of distinct from the rest of the
film and, you know, when you ask me,
that's the first thing that came to
mind. I quite like also the shot if you
remember when the boy falls down at the
hospital. There's like a top shot where,
you know, we see the the young boy like
dropping uh on the floor and we're very
high up.
>> Don't be scared, Mom.
You won't be able to move either.
>> Which is, you know, more of the language
of the film, which is like shot a lot of
the times from above. like there's some
presence observing the whole story. So
that's another one.
I mean the the shot that comes to mind I
think it's like probably maybe the first
shot that we did that kind of I mean
there are many more elaborate shots and
but this shot of uh Emma Stone Abigail
playing Abigail and she goes to pick up
and bring them hot chocolate to the
queen and and Rachel and the camera's
extremely low and I remember telling
Robbie like you know He put the camera
really low and I were like, "No, no,
no." Like really low. And like we were
trying to figure out a way to get the,
you know, 35 mm camera right on the
floor so that we're looking up at her
while she's, you know, bringing the
chocolate and how she's aware of the
conversation that's happening uh near
her.
>> You will have to tell Harley you've
changed your mind about the tax. Are the
people really angry about the land tax?
They'll be angry when the French are
sodomizing their wives and planting
their fields with garlic.
>> It stuck in my mind because I I think it
kind of set the tone of how we're going
to be filming this.
>> Did you just look at me? Did you look at
me? LOOK AT ME. HOW DARE YOU? CLOSE YOUR
EYES.
most of the world world was built and
visual effects were just to enhance a
little bit of that. So those were some
huge sets that we built in in Budapest
in some of the biggest sound stages in
in Europe.
>> I have adventured it and found nothing
but sugar and violence. It is most
charming. I am fine. You know, again, a
shot that comes to mind is when Bella is
walking around the ship. You know, she's
alone at night and she goes outside and
you see the sea in the sky, which was
actually a uh an LED screen with, you
know, footage that we had already
created. So, it was all in camera. And
some of the first shots that we tested
actually when we were preparing the film
and we're trying to figure out, you
know, the v the visual language of it,
we built like a little part of the boat
with an LED screen and we tried some
footage on there and, you know, filmed
uh someone on the deck and again it gave
us a sense of what the film would look
like, but also you know some of the
miniature stuff was quite interesting
like we did, you know, the exterior of
Alfie's palace is a miniature and then
enhanced with some VFX and um you know
how we you know incorporated like a
liveaction carriage within that but you
know the rest of it is a miniature or
the rooftop the the black and white
rooftop that we made with you know all
these cutout parts of the city uh in the
background. Yeah, there's there's quite
a few interesting stuff going on in poor
things. Visually speaking,
[music]
I quite like I mean it's not only a
shot, but like it's when Emily cuts her
cuts her thumb and leaves it on the and
faints and the the thumb is on the
cutting board and that's dissolved into
into a tracking shot going backwards and
then seeing her on the floor cuz we
didn't see her fall before. I mean, I
kind of like that how that all worked
with the music and the the closeup of
the of the thumb and the, you know, and
the tracking shot, how all that worked
out. We figured it out in the in the
editing room and, you know, all all the
elements come in and then the music
comes in and, you know, you try things
out and that, you know, that worked
really well. It's one of those things
that in the editing room kind of gets
you excited to see that, you know, that
it worked.
>> [music]
>> To be honest, I just love Emma's
close-ups, you know, in the basement
with her, you know, burgundy trans coat
and white face scream. I just think, you
know, she looks iconic and it's uh it's
so powerful and it's, you know, we film
it, we filmed it on Vista Vision and,
you know, the larger format, you know,
creates this kind of really um
impressive portraiture, you know, of the
characters. You know, those images of
her in the basement are, you know, stuck
in my mind.
a shot from another movie. Um, I mean I
really love uh bre and uh you know pig
pocket and you know all the you know
shots of hands and it's just so moving
to me like these details of you know
human
uh interaction in such a minimalist
beautiful way is something that always
moves me.
I think I mean I do a lot of very wide
shots as well. Not so much on Bugonia.
We kind of stayed away a little bit of
that uh of that away of that. Um I think
there's something about I'm interested
in you know physicality
a lot. So body language and movement and
you know apart from you know the faces
obviously that are very important in in
Buggoni especially there's a lot of
dialogue as well you know there's
something about the human body and how
it moves and you know the the exclusion
of the rest of the world and the space
that it moves in without uh being you
know you don't have to be descriptive
but be more focused on you know on the
human detail and performance and
movement that is more emotive for me
than actually, you know, trying to
describe something. Um, so I think
that's, you know, one of the things that
I'm interested in in terms of close-ups.
>> Thanks for watching My Best Shots. Be
sure to check out the My Best Shots
playlist for the latest episodes with
your favorite [music] directors.